OK, so let's get into our first problem, what I want to do when I'm going through these problems well,
I want you to do is to think about what the problem is actually saying.
I don't really care if you're not really paying attention to the numbers the first time you're actually
going through these problems.
But think about the situation and I'll help you out with going about visualizing that.
The first pump says light from the sun reaches the earth in eight point three minutes, which is equal
to four hundred ninety eight seconds.
The average velocity of light is three point zero zero times ten to the eight power meters per second.
How far from the earth is the sun now?
Once again, I just want you to read the question itself again.
But let's not even include the numbers.
Let's just read the words.
So life from the sun reaches the earth.
In this amount of time, the average velocity of the light is this.
How far from the earth is the sun?
OK, so let's think about what's happening here.
So I'm just going to draw a little visual here.
Say it.
We have the sun over here and we have the earth over here.
What we're basically saying is, hey, no sunlight is going to travel from the sun and reach the earth.
Right.
That's a situation.
We know that it's starting off over here.
That's the initial position.
And the final position is going to be over here.
So what I'd like to do is this.
I like to pretend, say if we are standing right on the sun, which is hopefully, you know, is physically
impossible, but would be awesome.
OK, so if we're standing right here on the sun.
And we're watching the light all the way over here to the Earth.
Let me ask you this.
What do you think the value is that we're going to be saying?
Is the initial position of the sunlight?
If it's right here, it's going to go all the way over here.
Initially, it's going to have a value of zero zero meters.
That's the initial position.
So let's go through here and pull out the given information that we have.
It's going to take 498 seconds, which is equal to eight point three minutes.
Hey, which one of these units we want to be using once again, if we're referring to this over here,
we know that time is going to be measured in seconds.
So let's actually just use the 498 seconds.
So we have our Delta team, which is 498 seconds, the average velocity.
Oh, look at that.
All right.
So we are being told that average velocity over here is three point zero zero times ten to the eight
meters per second.
So we also know that's velocity being that we're giving the units and we're being told specifically
that's the average velocity.
So we know that our variable that we're going to be dealing with is V so three times 10 to the eight
power meters per second.
All right.
And how far from the earth is a sun?
OK, so wait a minute, if we actually know that the initial position is right over here and that the
final position is over here, isn't that really just how far away it is that's describing the final
position?
Yeah, right.
So that's actually what we're going to be looking for.
Which one of these kinematic equations do we want to be working with?
Which one will be best suited for our needs?
Well, we know that this velocity here is our average velocity.
So these formulas over here, these first two have to deal with average velocity.
This line separates the formula that have to do with average velocity and all the other ones.
None of these formulas over here have to do with average velocity.
Whenever we're dealing with the average velocity, we're going to be looking at these first two formulas.
So I just want to make that clear.
OK, well, looking at the other variables that we have here, are we giving our final position, initial
position and our Delta T..
Well, yeah.
OK, so that's nice.
Well, what about this?
Are we getting our initial velocity, final velocity now?
OK, well that's simple enough.
Let's actually just use this formula right here, so I'm just going to write that out right now.
So we have the is equal to.
That's F minus X I.
Divided by Delta T..
So we just simply plug in our variables right now, so we've XPath, which is the variable that we're
trying to solve.
Oh.
I did not do a good job already, so we have three times 10 to the 8th where I'm just going to do is
exclude our units.
Your teacher might say, hey, know what, I want you to exclude the units when you're plugging in for
the equation.
But for myself, I don't mind if you actually do exclude the units.
It just makes it a lot simpler, a lot easier to manage going through these problems.
So Zeph, minus our initial position of zero divided by our Delta T., which is 498 and we saw this
out for Zeph and we should be able to get our answer.
I'm just going to delete our picture over here.
So this subtraction of zero does actually add any sort of value to our problem whatsoever now.
Right.
So all that we basically have here is except divide by 498.
How do we actually get rid of a division of 498?
You multiply 490 on both sides of the equation.
When you do that, you should be plugging this in your calculator and getting the final position is
one point four, nine times ten to the eleventh tower.
And that should be in units of meters.
And that's your final answer.